
# ROCK PAPER SCISSORS
The earliest form of Rock Paper Scissors was created in Japan and is called Janken.  This is a variation of the Chinese games introduced in the 17th century. Janken uses the Rock, Paper and Scissors signs. It is the game that the modern version of Rock Paper Scissors derives from directly. Hand-games using gestures to represent the three conflicting elements of rock, paper and scissors have been most common since the modern version of the game was created in the late 19th Century. This was between the Edo and Meiji periods.
A simultaneous, zero-sum game, it has three possible outcomes: a draw, a win or a loss. A player who decides to play rock will beat another player who has chosen scissors ("rock crushes scissors" or "breaks scissors" or sometimes "blunts scissors"), but will lose to one who has played paper ("paper covers rock"); a play of paper will lose to a play of scissors ("scissors cuts paper"). If both players choose the same shape, the game is tied and is usually immediately replayed to break the tie. The game spread from China while developing different variants in signs over time.

Rock paper scissors is often used as a fair choosing method between two people, similar to coin flipping, drawing straws, or throwing dice in order to settle a dispute or make an unbiased group decision. Unlike truly random selection methods, however, rock paper scissors can be played with a degree of skill by recognizing and exploiting non-random behavior in opponents.